Element.getAttribute(): document entity decoding in returned values (#44281)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/element/getattribute/index.md

When called on an HTML element in a DOM flagged as an HTML document,
`getAttribute()` lower-cases its argument before proceeding.

> ### Character entities in attribute values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Decoded character references in attribute values
```

The suggestion really is to be more specific with the intent of this suggestion, and also, we tend to call them character references on MDN.

> HTML character entities in an attribute's source markup (for example, `&lt;`, `&amp;`, or `&#x3C;`) are decoded by the HTML parser when the document is parsed, so `getAttribute()` returns the decoded value, not the original source. Given:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTML [character references](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Character_reference) in an attribute's source markup (for example, `&lt;`, `&amp;`, or `&#x3C;`) are decoded by the HTML parser when the document is parsed, so `getAttribute()` returns the decoded value, not the original source.

Given:
```

```html
<div id="example" data-payload="&lt;b&gt;hi&lt;/b&gt;"></div>
```

calling `document.getElementById("example").getAttribute("data-payload")` returns the string `"<b>hi</b>"`.

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

This is important, and part of the main narrative in this section, so I would make it not-a-warning.

> > Treating the return value as already-escaped HTML is unsafe. If you read an attribute that holds untrusted data and then assign it to {{domxref("Element.innerHTML", "innerHTML")}} or insert it into the document as markup, any HTML entities the source author used to escape special characters will already be decoded, and the result can be exploited for [cross-site scripting (XSS)](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS). Use {{domxref("Node.textContent", "textContent")}} (or another text-safe API) for untrusted data instead of `innerHTML`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Treating the return value from `getAttribute()` as already-escaped HTML is unsafe. If you read an attribute that holds untrusted data and then assign it to {{domxref("Element.innerHTML", "innerHTML")}} or insert it into the document as markup, any HTML references used to escape special characters will already be decoded, and the result can be exploited for [cross-site scripting (XSS)](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS).

Use {{domxref("Node.textContent", "textContent")}} (or another text-safe API) for untrusted data instead of `innerHTML`.
```
